Everything Switches do - Part 1 - Networking Fundamentals - Lesson 4

Switches:
Switching is the process of moving data within networks
	Switches are devices whose primary purpose is Switching
	Devices communicating through a switch belong to the same IP network

Host A:		MAC:	a1a1
		IP:	10.1.1.11

Switch:		MAC:	e9e9		
		IP:	10.1.1.x
		Subnet:	/24
	
Host D:		MAC:	e4e4
		IP:	10.1.1.44

Switches are L2 devices - they only use L2 header to make decisions (SRC/DST)

In this example Host A knows Host D's MAC and IP address. (So I skip the ARP process)

Switches use and maintain MAC Address Table
	Mapping of Switch Ports to MAC addresses

MAC Address Table: (Which MAC is on which Port on the Switch)
Port 5 --> a1a1
Port 6 --> c3c3
Port 7 --> b2b2
Port 8 --> d4d4

Switches perform three actions:
	Learn 	(MAC Address Table are empty in the beginning)
	Flood 	(Duplicate and send frame out all switch ports. except receiving port)
	Forward	(Use MAC Address Table to deliver Frame to appropriate switch port)
	
Host A sends data on a wire to Port 5 on the Switch
Switch update MAC Address Table with mapping of Switch Port to Source MAC
MAC Address Table at this point:
Port 5 --> a1a1

Now Switch knows that Port 5 is the port of MAC a1a1
Swtch doesn't know on which port the wished DST of Host A is. So the switch Floods.
MAC Address Table at this point:
Port 5 --> a1a1
Port 8 --> d4d4

Process would be identical if Host D was a Router connected to the Internet

Traffic going THROUGH the Switch
	So the Switch has a MAC address but its not involved for communication through the Switch

Traffic going TO the Switch
	Switch has a MAC address and is configured with an IP address
	Switch essentially act as a host in the network
	Follows all the host communication rules
	Example: Trying to log into the Switch with SSH or Telnet
	
____________________

 Everything Switches do - Part 2 - Networking Fundamentals - Lesson 4 
 
 Switches:
 Switches use and maintain		MAC Address Table
 Switches perform three actions:	Learn, Flood, Forward
 	Unicast Frame	- destination MAC is another host (one to one communication)
 		Switch will flood only if MAC address is not in MAC address table
 	Broadcast Frame	- destination MAC address of ffff.ffff.ffff (all hosts in network)
 		Broadcast frames are always Flooded
 
 Broadcast	=	Type of Frame
 Flood		=	Switch Action
 
 Switches will only send Broadcasts if traffic is going TO or FROM the Switch
 
 VLANs	-	Virtual Local Area Networks
 	Divides Switch Port into isolated groups
 	Divides Switches into multiple "mini-switches"
 	Switches do all three action within each VLAN
 	
 
 Multiple Switches:
 	Switches maintain independent MAC address Tables
 	They dont share information (seperate MAC Address Tables)
 	Switches perform switch actions independently
 	
 
 Declaration Example:
 
 Host A:	On Switch 1
 		aaaa.aaaa.aaaa
 		Port 1
 
 Host C:	On Switch 1
 		cccc.cccc.cccc
 
 Host B:	On Switch 2
 		bbbb.bbbb.bbbb
 		Port 6
 
 Host D:	On Switch 2
 		dddd.dddd.dddd
 
 Switch 1 is on Port 4 of Switch 2
 Switch 2 is on Port 3 of Switch 1
 		
 Host A knows the MAC address of the Host hes trying to speak to.
 
 Host A sends data to Switch 1:
 	Switch 1: "I just received a frame on port 1 with a source MAC of aaaa.aaaa.aaaa, i will learn this mapping in my MAC Table"
 	Switch 1: "I dont know where bbbb.bbbb.bbbb is. I'll have to flood this frame out all ports"
 	
 	Switch 2: "I just received a frame on port 4 with a source MAC of aaaa.aaaa.aaaa, i will learn this mapping in my MAC Table."
 	
 Current MAC Tables:
 Switch 1:
 	Port 1	=	aaaa.aaaa.aaaa
 Switch 2:
 	Port 4	=	aaaa.aaaa.aaaa
 	
 	Switch 2: "I dont know where bbbb.bbbb.bbbb is. I'll have to flood this frame out all ports."
 	Host B get copy of file
 
 Host D get a copy of this frame and dumbs it silently.
 Host B get a copy of this frame for processing and theoreticly creates a response.
 Response is sent from Host B to Host A.
 
 	Switch 2: "I just reveived a frame on port 6 with a source MAC of bbbb.bbbb.bbbb, i will learn this mapping in my MAC Table."
 	
 	Switch 2: "I know where aaaa.aaaa.aaaa is. I will forward this frame out port 4"
 	
 	
 	Switch 1: "I just received a frame on port 3 with a source MAC of bbbb.bbbb.bbbb, i will learn this mapping in my MAC Table."
 	
 Current MAC Tables:
 Switch 1:
 	Port 1	=	aaaa.aaaa.aaaa
 	Port 3	=	bbbb.bbbb.bbbb
 	
 Switch 2:
 	Port 4	=	aaaa.aaaa.aaaa
 	Port 6	=	bbbb.bbbb.bbbb
 	
 	Switch 1: "I know where aaaa.aaaa.aaaa is. I will forward this frame out port 1."
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
